Transcript
00:00
At Google, we believe that rigorous evaluations of how to build AI responsibly are not only the right thing to do, they are a critical component of creating successful AI.
00:11
Products and technology should work for everyone.
00:14
Our AI Principles keep us motivated by a common purpose, guide us to use advanced technologies in the best
00:20
interest of people around the world, and help us make decisions that are aligned with Google's mission and core values.
00:28
We all have a role to play in how responsible AI is applied Our aim is that through taking this course
00:34
you’ve gained an understanding of how we at Google developed our AI Principles and how we’ve operationalized them within the organization.
00:43
Our hope is you can take the lessons learned and best practices from this training as a starting point to work with your teams to further your Responsible AI strategy.
00:52
Our challenge to you is that you now take this knowledge and develop your own AI principles and accompanying review process.
01:01
Wherever you are in your AI journey a valuable goal can be to talk with your teams about what responsible AI means in the context of your own business.
01:09
Those discussions can help you when outlining your own AI principles.
01:15
We know no system, whether human or AI powered, will ever be perfect, so we don’t consider the task of improving it to ever be finished.
01:24
We look forward to continuing to update you on what we’re learning and on our progress.
01:28
We share these on the Google and Google Cloud Responsible AI pages.
01:35
If you want to take the next step and work with Google on your next project or business goal,
01:39
you can always reach out to your local Google Cloud account representative or a Google Cloud ML Specialized Partner.
01:46
If you have specific questions around responsible AI, you can reach out to the Google Cloud responsible AI team directly.
01:54
We are unwavering in our commitment to Responsible AI, thank you for joining us on this journey and learning with us.

