Transcript
00:00
One leading estimate from PricewaterhouseCoopers suggests that AI could boost global GDP by 14%, or up to $15.7 trillion, by 2030.
00:12
At Google, we believe that the responsible, inclusive, and fair deployment of AI is a critical factor in realizing this projection.
00:21
Simply put, we believe that responsible AI is synonymous with successful AI that can be deployed for the long term with trust.
00:29
We also believe that responsible AI programs and practices afford business leaders a strategic and competitive advantage.
00:36
To explore the business benefits of responsible AI in depth, we sponsored an original report titled “Staying Ahead of the Curve: The
00:43
Business Case for Responsible AI,” which was developed by The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), the research and analysis division of The Economist Group.
00:54
The report showcases the value of responsible AI practices in an increasingly AI-driven world.
01:00
It comprehensively presents the impact that Responsible AI can have on an organization’s core business considerations.
01:06
It’s important to emphasize that the data collected to create this report came from extensive data-driven research, industry-expert interviews, and an executive survey program.
01:19
The report reflects the sentiment of developers, industry leaders deploying AI, and end users of AI.
01:25
We will share the main findings, and we encourage you to read the full report, available in the resources section of this course.
01:32
We hope you’ll use these highlights to draw a connection between your business goals and responsible AI initiatives, which can empower you to influence stakeholders in your own organization.
01:43
The report is subdivided into seven sections and includes data on how responsible AI: enhances product
01:49
quality; improves the outlook on acquisition; retention, and engagement of talent; contributes to better data management, security
01:58
and privacy; leads to readiness for current and future AI regulations; leads to improvements to the top-
02:06
and bottom-line growth; assists to strengthen relationships with stakeholders and investors; and maintains strong trust and branding.
02:16
In the next video, we’ll explore each of these seven sections in detail.
