Setting Up, Running, and Managing AWS ECS Clusters Using the AWS CLI
This tutorial covers the complete process for setting up, running, and managing Amazon ECS (Elastic Container Service) clusters using the AWS CLI. We will also include additional steps for monitoring, scaling, updating, backing up, restoring, managing security, troubleshooting, and deleting ECS clusters.

1. Install and Configure AWS CLI
Install AWS CLI

On Windows/Mac/Linux: Use the installer or package manager. For example, on Ubuntu:

 
 
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install awscli
Verify Installation:

 
 
aws --version
Configure AWS CLI

Set up your credentials and default configuration:

 
 
aws configure
You’ll be prompted to enter:

AWS Access Key ID
AWS Secret Access Key
Default region name
Default output format
2. Set Up an Amazon ECS Cluster
Create a Cluster

 
 
aws ecs create-cluster --cluster-name my-cluster
Create a Task Definition

Create a JSON file named task-definition.json with the following content:

json
 
{
  "family": "my-task",
  "containerDefinitions": [
    {
      "name": "my-container",
      "image": "nginx:latest",
      "memory": 512,
      "cpu": 256,
      "essential": true
    }
  ]
}
Register the task definition:

 
 
aws ecs register-task-definition --cli-input-json file://task-definition.json
Run a Task

 
 
aws ecs create-service --cluster my-cluster --service-name my-service --task-definition my-task --desired-count 1
3. Monitor Your ECS Clusters
List Services

 
 
aws ecs list-services --cluster my-cluster
Describe Service

 
 
aws ecs describe-services --cluster my-cluster --services my-service
4. Scale Your ECS Clusters
Update Desired Count

 
 
aws ecs update-service --cluster my-cluster --service my-service --desired-count 3
5. Update Your ECS Clusters
Register New Task Definition

Modify task-definition.json and register it:

 
 
aws ecs register-task-definition --cli-input-json file://task-definition.json
Update Service

 
 
aws ecs update-service --cluster my-cluster --service my-service --task-definition my-task
6. Backup and Restore Your ECS Clusters
Create an AMI

Use the AWS Management Console or CLI to create an AMI of your ECS instances.

Backup Task Definitions

 
 
aws ecs describe-task-definition --task-definition my-task > task-definition-backup.json
7. Manage ECS Cluster Security
List Security Groups

 
 
aws ec2 describe-security-groups
Update Security Group

 
 
aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress --group-id sg-xxxxxx --protocol tcp --port 80 --cidr 0.0.0.0/0
8. Troubleshoot ECS Cluster Issues
View Logs

 
 
aws logs describe-log-streams --log-group-name /ecs/my-cluster
Inspect ECS Events

 
 
aws ecs describe-services --cluster my-cluster --services my-service --query "services[0].events"
9. Delete Your ECS Clusters
Delete Service

 
 
aws ecs delete-service --cluster my-cluster --service my-service
Delete Cluster

 
 
aws ecs delete-cluster --cluster my-cluster
