Setting Up, Running, and Managing AWS EKS Clusters Using the AWS CLI
This tutorial covers the complete process for setting up, running, and managing Amazon EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service) clusters using the AWS CLI. We will also include additional steps for monitoring, scaling, updating, backing up, restoring, managing security, troubleshooting, and deleting EKS clusters.

1. Install and Configure AWS CLI
Install AWS CLI

On Windows/Mac/Linux: Use the installer or package manager. For example, on Ubuntu:

 
 
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install awscli
Verify Installation:

 
 
aws --version
Configure AWS CLI

Set up your credentials and default configuration:

 
 
aws configure
You’ll be prompted to enter:

AWS Access Key ID
AWS Secret Access Key
Default region name
Default output format
2. Set Up an Amazon EKS Cluster
Create an EKS Cluster

 
 
aws eks create-cluster --name my-cluster --role-arn arn:aws:iam::account-id:role/role-name --resources-vpc-config subnetIds=subnet-xxxxxx,securityGroupIds=sg-xxxxxx
Update kubeconfig

Update your kubeconfig to interact with the EKS cluster:

 
 
aws eks update-kubeconfig --name my-cluster
Deploy Applications

Use kubectl to deploy applications. For example:

 
 
kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml
3. Monitor Your EKS Clusters
List Deployments

 
 
kubectl get deployments
Describe Deployment

 
 
kubectl describe deployment my-deployment
4. Scale Your EKS Clusters
Scale Deployment

 
 
kubectl scale deployment my-deployment --replicas=5
5. Update Your EKS Clusters
Apply Updates

Modify your deployment.yaml file and apply it:

 
 
kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml
6. Backup and Restore Your EKS Clusters
Backup Kubernetes Configurations

 
 
kubectl get all --all-namespaces -o yaml > cluster-backup.yaml
7. Manage EKS Cluster Security
List Roles

 
 
kubectl get roles --all-namespaces
Create/Update Role

Modify role.yaml and apply:

 
 
kubectl apply -f role.yaml
8. Troubleshoot EKS Cluster Issues
Check Pod Logs

 
 
kubectl logs pod/my-pod
Describe Pod

 
 
kubectl describe pod my-pod
9. Delete Your EKS Clusters
Delete Cluster

 
 
aws eks delete-cluster --name my-cluster






